The force at the core leading our cause forward is the Chinese Communist Party.
The theoretical basis guiding our thinking is Marxism-Leninism.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, opening address at the First Session of
                   the First National People's Congress of the People's
                   Republic of China (September 15, 1954).
%
If there is to be revolution, there must be a revolutionary party. Without a
revolutionary party, without a party built on the Marxist-Leninist
revolutionary theory and in the Marxist-Leninist revolutionary style, it is
impossible to lead the working class and the broad masses of the people in
defeating imperialism and its running dogs.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Revolutionary Forces of the World
                   Unite, Fight Against Imperialist Aggression!"
                   (November 1948), Selected Works, Vol. IV, p. 284.*
%
Without the efforts of the Chinese Communist Party, without the Chinese
Communists as the mainstay of the Chinese people, China can never achieve
independence and liberation, or industrialization and the modernization of her
agriculture.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "On Coalition Government" (April 24,
                   1945), Selected Works, Vol. III, p. 318.*
%
The Chinese Communist Party is the core of leadership of the whole Chinese
people. Without this core, the cause of socialism cannot be victorious.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, talk at the general reception for the
                   delegates to the Third National Congress of the New
                   Democratic Youth League of China (May 25, 1957).
%
A well-disciplined Party armed with the theory of Marxism-Leninism, using the
method of self-criticism and linked with the masses of the people; an army
under the leadership of such a Party; a united front of all revolutionary
classes and all revolutionary groups under the leadership of such a Party --
these are the three main weapons with which we have defeated the enemy.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "On the People's Democratic
                   Dictatorship" (June 13, 1949), Selected Works, Vol.
                   IV, p. 422.
%
We must have faith in the masses and we must have faith in the Party. These are
two cardinal principles. If we doubt these principles, we shall accomplish
nothing.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, On the Question of Agricultural
                   Co-operation (July 31, 1955), 3rd ed., p. 7.*
%
Armed with Marxist-Leninist theory and ideology, the Communist Party of China
has brought a new style of work to the Chinese people. A style of work which
essentially entails integrating theory with practice, forging close links with
the masses and practicing self-criticism.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "On Coalition Government" (April 24,
                   1945), Selected Works, Vol. III, p. 314.*
%
No political party can possibly lead a great revolutionary movement to victory
unless it possesses revolutionary theory and knowledge of history and has a
profound grasp of the practical movement.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "The Role of the Chinese Communist
                   Party in the National War" (October 1938), Selected
                   Works, Vol. II, p. 208.
%
As we used to say, the rectification movement is "a widespread movement of
Marxist education". Rectification means the whole Party studying Marxism
through criticism and self-criticism. We can certainly learn more about Marxism
in the course of the rectification movement.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, speech at the Chinese Communist Party's
                   National Conference on Propaganda Work (March 12,
                   1957), 1st pocket ed., p. 14.
%
It is an arduous task to ensure a better life for the several hundred million
people of China and to build our economically and culturally backward country
into a prosperous and powerful one with a high level of culture. And it is
precisely in order to be able to shoulder this task more competently and work
better together with all non-Party people who are actuated by high ideals and
determined to institute reforms that we must conduct rectification movements
both now and in the future, and constantly rid ourselves of whatever is wrong.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, Speech at the Chinese Communist Party's
                   National Conference on Propaganda Work (March 12,
                   1957), 1st pocket ed., pp. 15-16.*
%
Policy is the starting-point of all the practical actions of a revolutionary
party and manifests itself in the process and the end-result of that party's
actions. A revolutionary party is carrying out a policy whenever it takes any
action. If it is not carrying out a correct policy, it is carrying out a wrong
policy; if it is not carrying out a given policy consciously, it is doing so
blindly. What we call experience is the process and the end-result of carrying
out a policy. Only through the practice of the people, that is, through
experience, can we verify whether a policy is correct or wrong and determine to
what extent it is correct or wrong. However, people's practice, especially the
practice of a revolutionary party and the revolutionary masses, cannot but be
bound up with one policy or another. Therefore, before any action is taken, we
must explain the policy, which we have formulated in the light of the given
circumstances, to Party members and to the masses. Otherwise, Party members and
the masses will depart from the guidance of our policy, act blindly and carry
out a wrong policy.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "On the Policy Concerning Industry and
                   Commerce" (February 27, 1948), Selected Works, Vol.
                   IV, pp. 204-05.*
%
Our Party has laid down the general line and general policy of the Chinese
revolution as well as various specific lines for work and specific policies.
However, while many comrades remember our Party's specific lines for work and
specific policies, they often forget its general line and general policy. If we
actually forget the Party's general line and general policy, then we shall be
blind, half-baked, muddle-headed revolutionaries, and when we carry out a
specific line for work and a specific policy, we shall lose our bearings and
vacillate now to the left and now to the right, and the work will suffer.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Speech at a Conference of Cadres in
                   the Shansi-Suiyuan Liberated Area" (April 1, 1948),
                   Selected Works, Vol. IV, p. 238.*
%
Policy and tactics are the life of the Party; leading comrades at all levels
must give them full attention and must never on any account be negligent.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "A Circular on the Situation" (March
                   20, 1948), Selected Works, Vol. IV, p. 220.
%
Classes struggle, some classes triumph, others are eliminated. Such is history,
such is the history of civilization for thousands of years. To interpret history
from this viewpoint is historical materialism; standing in opposition to this
viewpoint is historical idealism.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Cast Away Illusions, Prepare for
                   Struggle" (August 14, 1949), Selected Works, Vol. IV,
                   p. 428.
%
In class society everyone lives as a member of a particular class, and every
kind of thinking, without exception, is stamped with the brand of a class.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "On Practice" (July 1937), Selected
                   Works, Vol. I, p. 296.
%
Changes in society are due chiefly to the development of the internal
contradictions in society, that is, the contradiction between the productive
forces and the relations of production, the contradiction between classes and
the contradiction between the old and the new; it is the development of these
contradictions that pushes society forward and gives the impetus for the
supersession of the old society by the new.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "On Contradiction" (August 1937),
                   Selected Works, Vol. I, p. 314.
%
The ruthless economic exploitation and political oppression of the peasants by
the landlord class forced them into numerous uprisings against its rule. . . .
It was the class struggles of the peasants, the peasant uprisings and peasant
wars that constituted the real motive force of historical development in Chinese
feudal society.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "The Chinese Revolution and the Chinese
                   Communist Party" (December 1939), Selected Works,
                   Vol. II, p. 308.*
%
In the final analysis, national struggle is a matter of class struggle. Among
the whites in the United States it is only the reactionary ruling circles who
oppress the black people. They can in no way represent the workers, farmers,
revolutionary intellectuals and other enlightened persons who comprise the
overwhelming majority of the white people.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Statement Supporting the American
                   Negroes in Their Just Struggle Against Racial
                   Discrimination by U.S. Imperialism" (August 8, 1963),
                   People of the World, Unite and Defeat the U.S.
                   Aggressors and All Their Lackeys, 2nd ed., pp. 3-4.*
%
It is up to us to organize the people. As for the reactionaries in China, it is
up to us to organize the people to overthrow them. Everything reactionary is the
same; if you don't hit it, it won't fall. This is also like sweeping the floor;
as a rule, where the broom does not reach, the dust will not vanish of itself.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "The Situation and Our Policy After the
                   Victory in the War of Resistance Against Japan"
                   (August 13, 1945), Selected Works, Vol. IV, p. 19.
%
The enemy will not perish of himself. Neither the Chinese reactionaries nor the
aggressive forces of U.S. imperialism in China will step down from the stage of
history of their own accord.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Carry the Revolution Through to the
                   End" (December 30, 1948), Selected Works, Vol. IV,
                   p. 301.
%
A revolution is not a dinner party, or writing an essay, or painting a picture,
or doing embroidery; it cannot be so refined, so leisurely and gentle, so
temperate, kind, courteous, restrained and magnanimous. A revolution is an
insurrection, an act of violence by which one class overthrows another.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Report on an Investigation of the
                   Peasant Movement in Hunan" (March 1927), Selected
                   Works, Vol. I, p. 28.*
%
Chiang Kai-shek always tries to wrest every ounce of power and every ounce of
gain from the people. And we? Our policy is to give him tit for tat and to fight
for every inch of land. We act after his fashion. He always tries to impose war
on the people, one sword in his left hand and another in his right. We take up
swords too, following his example. . . . As Chiang Kai-shek is now sharpening
his swords, we must sharpen ours too.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "The Situation and Our Policy After the
                   Victory in the War of Resistance Against Japan"
                   (August 13, 1945), Selected Works, Vol. IV,
                   pp. 14-15.
%
Who are our enemies? Who are our friends? This is a question of the first
importance for the revolution. The basic reason why all previous revolutionary
struggles in China achieved so little was their failure to unite with real
friends in order to attack real enemies. A revolutionary party is the guide of
the masses, and no revolution ever succeeds when the revolutionary party leads
them astray. To ensure that we will definitely achieve success in our revolution
and will not lead the masses astray, we must pay attention to uniting with our
real friends in order to attack our real enemies. To distinguish real friends
from real enemies, we must make a general analysis of the economic status of the
various classes in Chinese society and of their respective attitudes towards the
revolution.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Analysis of the Classes in Chinese
                   Society" (March 1926), Selected Works, Vol. I, p. 13.
%
Our enemies are all those in league with imperialism -- the warlords, the
bureaucrats, the comprador class, the big landlord class and the reactionary
section of the intelligentsia attached to them. The leading force in our
revolution is the industrial proletariat. Our closest friends are the entire
semi-proletariat and petty bourgeoisie. As for the vacillating middle
bourgeoisie, their right-wing may become our enemy and their left-wing may
become our friend -- but we must be constantly on our guard and not let them
create confusion within our ranks.
                -- Mao Tse-tung, "Analysis of the Classes in Chinese
                   Society" (March 1926), Selected Works, Vol. I,
                   p. 19.*
%
